Adds a custom domains Capabilities page/guide (#1343)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/capabilities/custom-domains.mdx

---
# cSpell:ignore mycorp
id: custom-domains
title: Custom Domains
sidebar_label: Custom Domains
description: This document describes Custom Domains in Pomerium Zero. You'll learn how to add your own domain and what Pomerium requires to do so.
---

# Custom Domains in Pomerium Zero

This document describes **Custom Domains** in Pomerium Zero.

## Overview

> When you deploy a cluster in Pomerium Zero, we provision a randomly generated starter domain that's assigned to that cluster (for example, `unique-jellyfish-3578.pomerium.app`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deploy a cluster in Pomerium Zero, we provision a randomly generated starter subdomain under `pomerium.app` that's assigned to that cluster (for example, `unique-jellyfish-3578.pomerium.app`).
```

> Each starter domain comes with its own DNS records and TLS certificates, which makes it easier for new users to quickly build and test routes and policies in Pomerium Zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each starter subdomain comes with its own DNS records and TLS certificates, which makes it easier for new users to quickly build and test routes and policies in Pomerium Zero.
```

> After testing Pomerium Zero with your starter domain, you may want to add a custom domain within your cluster to secure your apps and services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After testing Pomerium Zero with your starter domain, you may want to add a custom domain for use by your cluster's routes to secure your apps and services.
```

:::info

> See the Clusters Concepts page for more information about clusters in Pomerium Zero.

Reviewer: Assume link is coming? 
```suggestion
See the [Clusters] Concepts page for more information about clusters in Pomerium Zero.
```

Author: Yes

:::

## Custom Domains

In Pomerium Zero, a valid **Custom Domain** is a fully qualified domain name (FQDN) where the domain owner can demonstrate control over the domain through DNS validation.

After you successfully add a custom domain to your cluster, Pomerium will automatically issue and renew X.509 wildcard certificates on behalf of the domain to secure the connection over TLS.

### Fully Qualified Domain Names

In the context of Pomerium Zero, an FQDN is the complete domain name of a custom domain. The example below resembles a valid FQDN, where `service` is the hostname, `mycorp` is the subdomain, and `example.com` is the domain name:

> `service.mycorp.example.com`

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what the best example here would be. Maybe we should give some example routes?

For example, given routes like:

- `verify.mycorp.example.com`
- `internal-tool.mycorp.example.com`
- `authenticate.mycorp.example.com`

You would want to use  `mycorp.example.com` as the custom domain.

### DNS validation

> In order for Pomerium to issue certificates on behalf of a custom domain, you must prove that you control the domain name specified in the certificate through DNS validation. Per the [ACME protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8555#section-2), Pomerium uses its own ACME client to communicate with Let's Encrypt, a free Certificate Authority, to validate a domain's DNS records.

Reviewer: I think it's a nice detail we cover how.

Let's Encrypt provides several [challenge types](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/) to validate a domain, including the [DNS-01 challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge). At a high level, this challenge consists of two steps:

1. A TXT record containing a specific token value must be placed into the `_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>` endpoint

> 1. A **wildcard CNAME record** must be added under the custom domain that points to your cluster's **Starter Domain**

Reviewer 2: It's more of an either/or.

Either a `TXT` record must be placed at `_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>`, or a `CNAME` record must be placed at `_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>` that points to another domain that has the `TXT` record. Since we own the `.pomerium.app` sub-domain, we can write the `TXT` record for them.

Using a `*.<YOUR_DOMAIN>` `CNAME` record also works for this. We recommend it because it also allows client requests to be forwarded to Pomerium.

---
# cSpell:ignore mycorp
id: custom-domains
title: Custom Domains
sidebar_label: Custom Domains
description: The Custom Domains page teaches you how to add your own domain in Pomerium Zero and how to use it to build routes to your services.
---

# Custom Domains in Pomerium Zero

This document describes **Custom Domains** in Pomerium Zero.

## Overview

When you deploy a cluster in Pomerium Zero, we provision a randomly generated starter subdomain under `pomerium.app` that's assigned to that cluster (for example, `unique-jellyfish-3578.pomerium.app`).

Each starter subdomain comes with its own DNS records and TLS certificates, which makes it easier for new users to quickly build and test routes and policies in Pomerium Zero.

> After testing Pomerium Zero with your starter domain, you may want to add a custom domain for use by your cluster's routes to secure your apps and services.

Reviewer 3: suggestion: "you may want" -> "you'll likely want"

:::info

See the Clusters Concepts page for more information about clusters in Pomerium Zero.

:::

## Custom Domains

> In Pomerium Zero, a valid **Custom Domain** is a fully qualified domain name (FQDN) where the domain owner can demonstrate control over the domain through DNS validation.

Reviewer 3: I think we might be able to make this a little clearer, and help communicate why you'd want to set up a custom domain.

```suggestion
In Pomerium Zero, a **Custom Domain** is a wildcard sub-domain you can use for Pomerium routes. After a one-time setup with your DNS provider, Pomerium will automatically provision and renew a TLS certificate for this sub-domain.
```

> After you successfully add a custom domain to your cluster, Pomerium will automatically issue and renew X.509 wildcard certificates on behalf of the domain to secure the connection over TLS.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest removing this paragraph if you like my suggestion for the previous paragraph.

(Otherwise, I'd suggest using "TLS certificate" rather than "X.509 certificate" as that's the terminology first used in the Overview section.)

> ### Fully Qualified Domain Names
> 
> In the context of Pomerium Zero, an FQDN is the complete domain name of a custom domain. The example below resembles a valid custom domain, where `mycorp` is the subdomain and `example.com` is the domain name:
> 
> `mycorp.example.com`
> 
> If you build routes with this custom domain to upstream services with hostnames like `verify`, `internal-tool`, and `authenticate`, your routes would look like:

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we should skip some of the jargon where possible?

Maybe just:
```suggestion
Say you want to use Pomerium Zero with the domain `mycorp.example.com`. After adding this custom domain, you'll be able to build routes like:
```

- `verify.mycorp.example.com`
- `internal-tool.mycorp.example.com`
- `authenticate.mycorp.example.com`

> ### DNS validation

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest moving this section further down, after "How to add a custom domain", and possibly renaming this section to "How it works". (I expect more users will want to know "how do I do this" compared to "what's going on behind the scenes".)

> In order for Pomerium to issue certificates on behalf of a custom domain, you must prove that you control the domain name specified in the certificate through DNS validation. Per the [ACME protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8555#section-2), Pomerium uses its own ACME client to communicate with Let's Encrypt, a free Certificate Authority, to validate a domain's DNS records.

Reviewer 3: one terminology nit: Pomerium doesn't "issue" certificates itself (only a "certificate authority" can do that), so if we want to be more precise I might suggest using "request" or "provision" instead of "issue".

Let's Encrypt provides several [challenge types](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/) to validate a domain, including the [DNS-01 challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge). At a high level, this challenge requires that either:

- A `TXT` record must be placed at `_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>`
- Or, a `CNAME` record must be placed at `_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>` that points to another domain with the `TXT` record

Because Pomerium owns the `pomerium.app` subdomain, we can write the `TXT` record for you. All you need to do is point a **wildcard CNAME record** to your cluster's starter domain.

Refer to the steps in [**How to add a custom domain**](#how-to-add-a-custom-domain) for specific instructions.

## How to add a custom domain

> Add a wildcard CNAME record that points to your starter domain:

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we should include a little code snippet too?

```suggestion
Add a wildcard CNAME record that points to your starter domain, for example:

    *.mycorp.example.com CNAME unique-jellyfish-3578.pomerium.app

In Google Cloud Platform, this looks something like:
```
---
For example, one of Cloudflare's [help pages](https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/zone-setups/partial-setup/setup/#add-dns-records) does something similar when giving instructions for adding a CNAME:
![Screen Shot 2024-04-10 at 9 29 06 AM](https://github.com/pomerium/documentation/assets/51246568/08275e73-6a0d-4eb6-afb6-f4835842a18f)
